then God said
then God said arise go up to Bethel and dwell there
arise go up to Bethel and dwell there
arise go up to Bethel and dwell there and make an altar there to God who
and make an altar there to God who
and make an altar there to God who appeared to you when you fled from the
appeared to you when you fled from the
appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother and Jacob said
face of Esau your brother and Jacob said
face of Esau your brother and Jacob said to his household and to all who were
to his household and to all who were
to his household and to all who were with him put away the foreign gods that
with him put away the foreign gods that
with him put away the foreign gods that are among you purify yourselves and
are among you purify yourselves and
are among you purify yourselves and change your garments then let us arise
change your garments then let us arise
change your garments then let us arise and go up to Bethel and I will make an
and go up to Bethel and I will make an
and go up to Bethel and I will make an altar there to God who answered me in
altar there to God who answered me in
altar there to God who answered me in the day of my distress and has been with
the day of my distress and has been with
the day of my distress and has been with me in the way which I have gone so they
me in the way which I have gone so they
me in the way which I have gone so they gave Jacob all the foreign gods which
gave Jacob all the foreign gods which
gave Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands and the earrings
were in their hands and the earrings
were in their hands and the earrings which were in their ears and Jacob hid
which were in their ears and Jacob hid
which were in their ears and Jacob hid them under the terebinth truth which was
them under the terebinth truth which was
them under the terebinth truth which was by Shechem and they journeyed and the
by Shechem and they journeyed and the
by Shechem and they journeyed and the terror of God was upon the cities that
terror of God was upon the cities that
terror of God was upon the cities that were all around them and they did not
were all around them and they did not
were all around them and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob so Jacob
pursue the sons of Jacob so Jacob
pursue the sons of Jacob so Jacob came to Las that is Bethel which is in
came to Las that is Bethel which is in
came to Las that is Bethel which is in the land of Canaan he and all the people
the land of Canaan he and all the people
the land of Canaan he and all the people who were with him and he built an altar
who were with him and he built an altar
who were with him and he built an altar there and called the place el Bethel
there and called the place el Bethel
there and called the place el Bethel because their God appeared to him when
because their God appeared to him when
because their God appeared to him when he fled from the face of his brother now
he fled from the face of his brother now
he fled from the face of his brother now Deborah Rebecca's nurse died and she was
Deborah Rebecca's nurse died and she was
Deborah Rebecca's nurse died and she was buried below Bethel under the terebinth
buried below Bethel under the terebinth
buried below Bethel under the terebinth tree so the name of it was called Alan
tree so the name of it was called Alan
tree so the name of it was called Alan bhagath then God appeared to Jacob again
bhagath then God appeared to Jacob again
bhagath then God appeared to Jacob again when he came from Paden era and blessed
when he came from Paden era and blessed
when he came from Paden era and blessed him your name is Jacob your name shall
him your name is Jacob your name shall
him your name is Jacob your name shall not be called Jacob anymore but Israel
not be called Jacob anymore but Israel
not be called Jacob anymore but Israel shall be your name
shall be your name
shall be your name so he called his name Israel I am God
so he called his name Israel I am God
so he called his name Israel I am God Almighty be fruitful and multiply a
Almighty be fruitful and multiply a
Almighty be fruitful and multiply a nation and a company of nations shall
nation and a company of nations shall
nation and a company of nations shall proceed from you and Kings shall come
proceed from you and Kings shall come
proceed from you and Kings shall come from your body the land which I gave
from your body the land which I gave
from your body the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac I give to you and to
Abraham and Isaac I give to you and to
Abraham and Isaac I give to you and to your descendants after you I give this
your descendants after you I give this
your descendants after you I give this land
but God went up from him in the place
but God went up from him in the place where he talked with you so Jacob set up
where he talked with you so Jacob set up
where he talked with you so Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked
a pillar in the place where he talked
a pillar in the place where he talked with him a pillar of stone and he poured
with him a pillar of stone and he poured
with him a pillar of stone and he poured a drink offering on it and he poured oil
a drink offering on it and he poured oil
a drink offering on it and he poured oil on it and Jacob called the name of the
on it and Jacob called the name of the
on it and Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him Bethel
then they journeyed from Bethel
then they journeyed from Bethel and when there was but a little distance
and when there was but a little distance
and when there was but a little distance to go to e froth Rachel laboured in
to go to e froth Rachel laboured in
to go to e froth Rachel laboured in childbirth and she had hard labor now it
childbirth and she had hard labor now it
childbirth and she had hard labor now it came to pass when she was in hard labor
came to pass when she was in hard labor
came to pass when she was in hard labor that the midwife said to her do not fear
that the midwife said to her do not fear
that the midwife said to her do not fear you will have this son also and so it
you will have this son also and so it
you will have this son also and so it was as her soul was departing for she
was as her soul was departing for she
was as her soul was departing for she died that she called his name Ben own
died that she called his name Ben own
died that she called his name Ben own eye but his father called him Benjamin
so Rachel died and was buried on the way
so Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ethan that is Bethlehem and Jacob set
to Ethan that is Bethlehem and Jacob set
to Ethan that is Bethlehem and Jacob set a pillow on her grave which is the
a pillow on her grave which is the
a pillow on her grave which is the pillar of Rachel's grave to this day
pillar of Rachel's grave to this day
pillar of Rachel's grave to this day then Israel journeyed and pitched his
then Israel journeyed and pitched his
then Israel journeyed and pitched his tent beyond the Tower of EDA
and it happened when Israel dwelt in
and it happened when Israel dwelt in that land that reuben went and lay with
that land that reuben went and lay with
that land that reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine and Israel
Bilhah his father's concubine and Israel
Bilhah his father's concubine and Israel heard about it now the sons of Jacob
heard about it now the sons of Jacob
heard about it now the sons of Jacob were twelve four sons of Leah were
were twelve four sons of Leah were
were twelve four sons of Leah were reuben Jacob's firstborn and Simeon Levi
reuben Jacob's firstborn and Simeon Levi
reuben Jacob's firstborn and Simeon Levi Judah Issachar and Zebulun the sons of
Judah Issachar and Zebulun the sons of
Judah Issachar and Zebulun the sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin the sons
Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin the sons
Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin the sons of Bilhah Rachel's maidservant were Dan
of Bilhah Rachel's maidservant were Dan
of Bilhah Rachel's maidservant were Dan and Naphtali
and Naphtali
and Naphtali and the sons of Zilpah Leah's
and the sons of Zilpah Leah's
and the sons of Zilpah Leah's maidservant were gad and ashur these
maidservant were gad and ashur these
maidservant were gad and ashur these were the sons of Jacob who were born to
were the sons of Jacob who were born to
were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Paden
him in Paden
him in Paden Aran when Jacob came to his father Isaac
Aran when Jacob came to his father Isaac
Aran when Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre or Kier jith odda that is
at Mamre or Kier jith odda that is
at Mamre or Kier jith odda that is Hebron where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt
Hebron where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt
Hebron where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt now the days of Isaac were 180 years so
now the days of Isaac were 180 years so
now the days of Isaac were 180 years so Isaac breathed his last and died and was
Isaac breathed his last and died and was
Isaac breathed his last and died and was gathered to his people being old and
gathered to his people being old and
gathered to his people being old and full of days and his sons Esau and Jacob
full of days and his sons Esau and Jacob
full of days and his sons Esau and Jacob buried